% Trust
% TPRC 2016 Submission
%
% Spring 2016
%
% Andy Sayler

\documentclass[11pt,letterpaper]{article}

% System Packages
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{epsfig}
\usepackage{float}
\usepackage[dvipsnames]{xcolor}
\usepackage{caption}
\usepackage{subcaption}
\usepackage{tabu}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage{url}

% Local Packages
% None

% Package Options
\hypersetup{
    colorlinks,
    citecolor=black,
    filecolor=black,
    linkcolor=black,
    urlcolor=black
}

% Macros
\input{macros.tex}

% Other Options
\clubpenalty = 10000
\widowpenalty = 10000

% Start
\begin{document}

\title{Categorizing, Analyzing, and Managing Third Party Trust}

\author{BLINDED FOR REVIEW}

\date{}

\maketitle

\begin{abstract}

The modern computing ecosystem requires users to trust a variety of
third parties to complete even the most basic of digital tasks.  From
system administers to service providers to device manufactures, which
third parties computer users must trust and the capabilities with
which they must trust them is a critical component underlying the
privacy and security of our digital data. The rise of the ``cloud'' as
the preferred platform for most modern computing applications makes
questions of trust even more complicated and pressing. A lack of
understanding or misplacement of such trust has the potential to lead
to data leaks, questionable surveillance practices, and a wide range
of related privacy-harming events.

It is thus desirable from a public policy perspective to help
individuals understand and control third party trust and to minimize
the likelihood of such trust being violated. Toward these ends, this
paper presents a model for describing third party trust and the
likelihood of trust violations. It applies this model to analyze the
nature of third party trust across of a variety of popular cloud
services and uses it to categorize the common manners in which third
parties violate this trust. Finally, this paper presents a number of
proposed techniques, both technological and policy-based, to minimize
the degree of trust users must place in third parties as well as to
decrease the likelihood of violation of this trust.

\end{abstract}

\input{sec_intro}
\input{sec_model}
\input{sec_analysis}
\input{sec_mitigation}
\input{sec_conclusion}

\clearpage
\bibliographystyle{acm}
\bibliography{refs}

\end{document}
